README.md, before:

Jooxe
=====

Jooxe is the zero code web application framework.  

This is currently in alpha mode - it's all very experimental so don't expect anything
to actually work right now.


Visit http://www.jooxe.org for all the latest news and gossip.  However since this
is all very experimental don't expect to actually see anything there right now :)

Controller and model classes are defined dynamically from the contents of a 
schema file that you can generate from your database using the command 

rake build_schema[dbname,dbuser,dbpasswd]

where dbname is the name of the database to describe
dbuser is a database user with read access on the database
dbpasswd is the database user password

These dynamically defined classes include all the regular CRUD methods.

However.....

You can create Controller classes to redefine CRUD methods or extend
the basic CRUD behaviour.

Rendering boilerplate is also eliminated with rendering of an instance of a class 
performed by a generic view template.  Collections of instances are also rendered by a generic
view template.

However.....

You can define a view template to render an instance of a class and this is used instead of 
the generic view template and you can define a view to render a collection of instances
of a class and this is used instead of the generic collection view template.

What is the point ?

Well the long and the short of it is that all you need is your database and you have a working 
application for basic CRUD operations.  Without dynamically defined classes you would need
to create a controller and model for every database table and view templates for 
every controller action .  This will not be a lot of fun when there are 2000 tables in your database.

Databases have powerful features and db admins are far more capable of creating a
database than scripts in a DSL.  For example you may want to 
include stored procedures and triggers e.g. to journal modified/deleted records to a journal database.  
You may want to define user defined types and foreign key constraints on fields in a table.  
You may want to define comments for each field in the table and a comment for the table itself.  
Databases can outlive applications.  The application can change over time but the data is
persistent.  For these and many reasons it makes sense to use the full power of your database engine.
Start with your database and build the application around it - not the other way round.


The rake task to build the schema will work out the relationships between models based on the
foreign key constraints and the generic views will use the field comments to display tooltips in the 
create/edit form, well that's the plan anyway.

Furthermore.....

Given that the foreign key constraints imply that a value must belong to a range of values from another table
the form views can create an auto complete field or drop down menu using a title from the other table.  E.g

    create table manager (
        id int not null auto_increment primary key,
        name varchar(255) not null comment "the full name of the manager"
    );

    create table employee (
       id int not null auto_increment primary key,
       name varchar(255) not null "the full name of the employee",
       manager_id not null comment "foreign key on managers.id"
       key 'fk_user_manager',
       constraint 'user_manager_id' foreign key ('manager_id') references 'manager'('id')
    );


The form views will then generate an auto complete field or drop down menu to choose the
manager using the name field from the managers table as the title of the drop down menu options
or auto complete data.  Whether it is a drop down menu or an auto complete field depends
on the number of managers.  Based on a per class configurable limit if there are less than 
the limit (e.g less than 100 managers) you get a drop down - otherwise it is an auto complete
for you Jimmy.

OK let's talk about pluralization and singularization. 

Controller names are plural, model names are singular, table names can be either.

Path "/users" 
    routes to the index action of the UsersController
    the model is User and the table name can be 'user' or 'users.

Path "/user/123/edit" 
    routes to the 'edit' action of the UsersController, 
    the model is User, params[:id] == 123 and the table name can be 'user' or 'users.

Path "/user/123/contact/456/edit" 
    routes to the 'edit' action of the ContactsController, 
    the model is Contact, params[:user_id] == 123, params[:id] == 456
    and the table name can be  'contact' or 'contacts.


Sequel ORM

Jooxe uses the excellent sequel ORM (http://sequel.rubyforge.org) for database access.

Of course you can plug in any ORM you like such as DataMapper or ActiveRecord by creating models 
that extend the ORM class.  You may also need to install a database adapter gem for sequel such as 
mysql, postgresql, h2 etc. 

## Jooxe web app

See the example Jooxe web app at http://github.com/damianham/jooxe_webapp to get started.


## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'jooxe'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install jooxe

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request

Commit message:

add mailing list and things to do

README.md, after:

Jooxe
=====

Jooxe is the zero code web application framework.  

This is currently in alpha mode - it's all very experimental so don't expect anything
to actually work right now.


Visit http://www.jooxe.org for all the latest news and gossip.  However since this
is all very experimental don't expect to actually see anything there right now :)

Controller and model classes are defined dynamically from the contents of a 
schema file that you can generate from your database using the command 

rake build_schema[dbname,dbuser,dbpasswd]

where dbname is the name of the database to describe
dbuser is a database user with read access on the database
dbpasswd is the database user password

These dynamically defined classes include all the regular CRUD methods.

However.....

You can create Controller classes to redefine CRUD methods or extend
the basic CRUD behaviour.

Rendering boilerplate is also eliminated with rendering of an instance of a class 
performed by a generic view template.  Collections of instances are also rendered by a generic
view template.

However.....

You can define a view template to render an instance of a class and this is used instead of 
the generic view template and you can define a view to render a collection of instances
of a class and this is used instead of the generic collection view template.

What is the point ?

Well the long and the short of it is that all you need is your database and you have a working 
application for basic CRUD operations.  Without dynamically defined classes you would need
to create a controller and model for every database table and view templates for 
every controller action .  This will not be a lot of fun when there are 2000 tables in your database.

Databases have powerful features and db admins are far more capable of creating a
database than scripts in a DSL.  For example you may want to 
include stored procedures and triggers e.g. to journal modified/deleted records to a journal database.  
You may want to define user defined types and foreign key constraints on fields in a table.  
You may want to define comments for each field in the table and a comment for the table itself.  
Databases can outlive applications.  The application can change over time but the data is
persistent.  For these and many reasons it makes sense to use the full power of your database engine.
Start with your database and build the application around it - not the other way round.


The rake task to build the schema will work out the relationships between models based on the
foreign key constraints and the generic views will use the field comments to display tooltips in the 
create/edit form, well that's the plan anyway.

Furthermore.....

Given that the foreign key constraints imply that a value must belong to a range of values from another table
the form views should be able to create an auto complete field or drop down menu using a title from the other table.  E.g

    create table manager (
        id int not null auto_increment primary key,
        name varchar(255) not null comment "the full name of the manager"
    );

    create table employee (
       id int not null auto_increment primary key,
       name varchar(255) not null "the full name of the employee",
       manager_id not null comment "foreign key on managers.id"
       key 'fk_user_manager',
       constraint 'user_manager_id' foreign key ('manager_id') references 'manager'('id')
    );


The form views will then generate an auto complete field or drop down menu to choose the
manager using the name field from the managers table as the title of the drop down menu options
or auto complete data.  Whether it is a drop down menu or an auto complete field depends
on the number of managers.  Based on a per class configurable limit if there are less than 
the limit (e.g less than 100 managers) you get a drop down - otherwise it is an auto complete
for you Jimmy. 

Controller names are plural, model names are singular, table names can be either.

Path "/users" 
    routes to the index action of the UsersController
    the model is User and the table name can be 'user' or 'users.

Path "/user/123/edit" 
    routes to the 'edit' action of the UsersController, 
    the model is User, params[:id] == 123 and the table name can be 'user' or 'users.

Path "/user/123/contact/456/edit" 
    routes to the 'edit' action of the ContactsController, 
    the model is Contact, params[:user_id] == 123, params[:id] == 456
    and the table name can be  'contact' or 'contacts.


Sequel ORM

Jooxe uses the excellent sequel ORM (http://sequel.rubyforge.org) for database access.

Of course you can plug in any ORM you like such as DataMapper or ActiveRecord by creating models 
that extend the ORM class.  You may also need to install a database adapter gem for sequel such as 
mysql, postgresql, h2 etc. 

## Jooxe web app

See the example Jooxe web app at http://github.com/damianham/jooxe_webapp to get started.


## Installation

Clone the repository from github

    git clone git@github.com:damianham/jooxe.git

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'jooxe', :path => '../jooxe'

And then execute:

    $ bundle install

Make sure you pull from the Jooxe repository on a regular basis to get the latest updates

## Contributing

At this point it is very rough around the edges and there are many things still to do.
A brief list would include

- Validations
- Life cycle hooks, something along the lines of before(:all), before(:each), before(:save), after(:each), after(:save) would be nice
- Storage adapters for noSQL database engines (mongo, riak couchbase etc.)

Also service delegates for
- Caching  (file, sequel,network, redis and on the java platform java data grid e.g. infinispan)
- Sessions (file, sequel, network, cache)
- Authentication and Authorisation
- Attachments (file, sequel, network, S3)
- Searching (sphinx, solr, lucene,hadoop etc.)

## Get involved
0. Join the mailing list at http://groups.google.com/group/rubyonrails-talk and post a suggestion for improvement
1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request
